create
******


Description
===========

Creates a new Virtual Cloud Network (VCN). For more information, see
VCNs and Subnets.

For the VCN you must specify a single, contiguous IPv4 CIDR block.
Oracle recommends using one of the private IP address ranges specified
in RFC 1918 (10.0.0.0/8, 172.16/12, and 192.168/16). Example:
172.16.0.0/16. The CIDR block can range from /16 to /30, and it must
not overlap with your on-premises network. You can't change the size
of the VCN after creation.

For the purposes of access control, you must provide the OCID of the
compartment where you want the VCN to reside. Consult an Oracle Cloud
Infrastructure administrator in your organization if you're not sure
which compartment to use. Notice that the VCN doesn't have to be in
the same compartment as the subnets or other Networking Service
components. For more information about compartments and access
control, see Overview of the IAM Service. For information about OCIDs,
see Resource Identifiers.

You may optionally specify a *display name* for the VCN, otherwise a
default is provided. It does not have to be unique, and you can change
it. Avoid entering confidential information.

You can also add a DNS label for the VCN, which is required if you
want the instances to use the Interent and VCN Resolver option for DNS
in the VCN. For more information, see DNS in Your Virtual Cloud
Network.

The VCN automatically comes with a default route table, default
security list, and default set of DHCP options. The OCID for each is
returned in the response. You can't delete these default objects, but
you can change their contents (that is, change the route rules,
security list rules, and so on).

The VCN and subnets you create are not accessible until you attach an
Internet Gateway or set up an IPSec VPN or FastConnect. For more
information, see Overview of the Networking Service.


Usage
=====

   oci network vcn create [OPTIONS]


Options
=======


--cidr-block [text]
-------------------

The CIDR IP address block of the VCN.

Example: *172.16.0.0/16* [required]


--compartment-id, -c [text]
---------------------------

The OCID of the compartment to contain the VCN. [required]


--display-name [text]
---------------------

A user-friendly name. Does not have to be unique, and it's changeable.
Avoid entering confidential information.


--dns-label [text]
------------------

A DNS label for the VCN, used in conjunction with the VNIC's hostname
and subnet's DNS label to form a fully qualified domain name (FQDN)
for each VNIC within this subnet (for example,
*bminstance-1.subnet123.vcn1.oraclevcn.com*). Not required to be
unique, but it's a best practice to set unique DNS labels for VCNs in
your tenancy. Must be an alphanumeric string that begins with a
letter. The value cannot be changed.

You must set this value if you want instances to be able to use
hostnames to resolve other instances in the VCN. Otherwise the
Internet and VCN Resolver will not work.

For more information, see DNS in Your Virtual Cloud Network.

Example: *vcn1*


--wait-for-state [PROVISIONING|AVAILABLE|TERMINATING|TERMINATED]
----------------------------------------------------------------

This operation creates, modifies or deletes a resource that has a
defined lifecycle state. Specify this option to perform the action and
then wait until the resource reaches a given lifecycle state.


--max-wait-seconds [integer]
----------------------------

The maximum time to wait for the resource to reach the lifecycle state
defined by --wait-for-state. Defaults to 1200 seconds.


--wait-interval-seconds [integer]
---------------------------------

Check every --wait-interval-seconds to see whether the resource to see
if it has reached the lifecycle state defined by --wait-for-state.
Defaults to 30 seconds.


--from-json [text]
------------------

Provide input to this command as a JSON document from a file.

Options can still be provided on the command line. If an option exists
in both the JSON document and the command line then the command line
specified value will be used


-?, -h, --help
--------------

Show this message and exit.
