create
******


Description
===========

Creates a new user in your tenancy. For conceptual information about
users, your tenancy, and other IAM Service components, see Overview of
the IAM Service.

You must specify your tenancy's OCID as the compartment ID in the
request object (remember that the tenancy is simply the root
compartment). Notice that IAM resources (users, groups, compartments,
and some policies) reside within the tenancy itself, unlike cloud
resources such as compute instances, which typically reside within
compartments inside the tenancy. For information about OCIDs, see
Resource Identifiers.

You must also specify a *name* for the user, which must be unique
across all users in your tenancy and cannot be changed. Allowed
characters: No spaces. Only letters, numerals, hyphens, periods,
underscores, +, and @. If you specify a name that's already in use,
you'll get a 409 error. This name will be the user's login to the
Console. You might want to pick a name that your company's own
identity system (e.g., Active Directory, LDAP, etc.) already uses. If
you delete a user and then create a new user with the same name,
they'll be considered different users because they have different
OCIDs.

You must also specify a *description* for the user (although it can be
an empty string). It does not have to be unique, and you can change it
anytime with UpdateUser. You can use the field to provide the user's
full name, a description, a nickname, or other information to
generally identify the user.

After you send your request, the new object's *lifecycleState* will
temporarily be CREATING. Before using the object, first make sure its
*lifecycleState* has changed to ACTIVE.

A new user has no permissions until you place the user in one or more
groups (see AddUserToGroup). If the user needs to access the Console,
you need to provide the user a password (see CreateOrResetUIPassword).
If the user needs to access the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure REST API,
you need to upload a public API signing key for that user (see
Required Keys and OCIDs and also UploadApiKey).

**Important:** Make sure to inform the new user which compartment(s)
they have access to.


Usage
=====

   oci iam user create [OPTIONS]


Options
=======


--compartment-id, -c [text]
---------------------------

The OCID of the tenancy containing the user. [required]


--name [text]
-------------

The name you assign to the user during creation. This is the user's
login for the Console. The name must be unique across all users in the
tenancy and cannot be changed. [required]


--description [text]
--------------------

The description you assign to the user during creation. Does not have
to be unique, and it's changeable. [required]


--generate-full-command-json-input
----------------------------------

Prints out a JSON document which represents all possible options that
can be provided to this command.

This JSON document can be saved to a file, modified with the
appropriate option values, and then passed back via the --from-json
option. This provides an alternative to typing options out on the
command line.


--generate-param-json-input [text]
----------------------------------

Complex input, such as arrays and objects, are passed in JSON format.

When passed the name of an option which takes complex input, this will
print out example JSON of what needs to be passed to that option.


--from-json [text]
------------------

Provide input to this command as a JSON document from a file.

Options can still be provided on the command line. If an option exists
in both the JSON document and the command line then the command line
specified value will be used


-?, -h, --help
--------------

Show this message and exit.
