django-cljs-loader
==================

Transparent integration of ClojureScript in a Django project. Currently
supports `Leiningen <http://leiningen.org/>`__ and
`Figwheel <https://github.com/bhauman/lein-figwheel>`__, which means you
can rely on Figwheel's auto-refresh features during development.

This project is heavily inspired by the
`django-webpack-loader <https://github.com/owais/django-webpack-loader>`__
project, which has the similar goal of transparently including and using
Webpack bundles in a Django project.

The integration with Leiningen is simplistic: information is read from
the Leiningen ``project.clj`` file to determine which output bundles are
available and where. This means that there is a tight coupling to the
structure of the Leiningen project file -- expect things to break if you
have a really exotic project setup!

Install
-------

.. code:: shell

    $> pip install django-cljs-loader

Usage
-----

Examples
~~~~~~~~

This repository contains one example application, have a look at that to
see a working setup in action.

-  `Simple clock
   application <https://github.com/jstaffans/django-cljs-loader/tree/master/examples/simple>`__

Some more advanced examples are on the way!

Settings
~~~~~~~~

Only Leiningen projects are supported. With a ``project.clj`` file
somewhere in your project, you can set the ``django-cljs`` loader up in
your app settings.

It should look something like this:

.. code:: python

    from edn_format.edn_lex import Keyword

    BASE_DIR = ...  # should point to the project root

    STATIC_URL = '/static/'

    CLJS_LOADER = {
        # where to find the Leiningen project file
        'PROJECT_FILE': os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'project.clj'),

        # If True, tries to load JS files from the Figwheel dev server.
        # Set to False in production mode.
        'FIGWHEEL': True,

        # Which cljs build (defined in the project.clj file) to use.
        # Change this for production.
        'CLJS_BUILD': Keyword('dev'),

        # The root folder for assets built by Leiningen.
        # In development mode, this matches the Figwheel root.
        'ROOT': 'assets/public',
    }

    # Add the folder where cljsbuild output lands as a source directory for the 
    # staticfiles app. This assumes you are using the staticfiles app.
    STATICFILES_DIRS = (
        os.path.join(BASE_DIR, CLJS_LOADER['ROOT']),
    )

Where you put the ClojureScript source files is up to you -
``assets/cljs`` is one possibility. See the example projects.

Template tag
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the ``render_bundle`` template tag to hook the compiled
ClojureScript bundle into your application. It will insert a ``script``
tag and call the ``main`` function you have defined in the Leiningen
project file.

::

    {% load render_bundle from cljs_loader %}
    ...
    <body>
      ...
      {% render_bundle %}  
    </body>

Development
~~~~~~~~~~~

Open a second terminal and run ``lein figwheel``. Alternatively, launch
a REPL and do ``(fig-start)``. The JavaScript bundle will be loaded from
the Figwheel development server.

Production
~~~~~~~~~~

Assuming you have a cljsbuild profile called ``prod``:

::

    $> lein cljsbuild once prod

The compiled bundle that is produced by ``lein cljsbuild`` can be
collected with ``python manage.py collectstatic``, or whichever your
preferred method of including production assets is.

The ``render_bundle`` template tag does not need to change.

Contributing
------------

You can run the test suite in the ``tests`` folder with the following
command:

::

    $> make test
