upload
******


Description
===========

Uploads an API signing key for the specified user.

Every user has permission to use this operation to upload a key for
*their own user ID*. An administrator in your organization does not
need to write a policy to give users this ability. To compare,
administrators who have permission to the tenancy can use this
operation to upload a key for any user, including themselves.

**Important:** Even though you have permission to upload an API key,
you might not yet have permission to do much else. If you try calling
an operation unrelated to your own credential management (e.g.,
*ListUsers*, *LaunchInstance*) and receive an "unauthorized" error,
check with an administrator to confirm which IAM Service group(s)
you're in and what access you have. Also confirm you're working in the
correct compartment.

After you send your request, the new object's *lifecycleState* will
temporarily be CREATING. Before using the object, first make sure its
*lifecycleState* has changed to ACTIVE.


Usage
=====

   oci iam user api-key upload [OPTIONS]


Options
=======


--user-id [text]
----------------

The OCID of the user. [required]


--key [text]
------------

The public key.  Must be an RSA key in PEM format. [required]


--generate-full-command-json-input
----------------------------------

Prints out a JSON document which represents all possible options that
can be provided to this command.

This JSON document can be saved to a file, modified with the
appropriate option values, and then passed back via the --from-json
option. This provides an alternative to typing options out on the
command line.


--generate-param-json-input [text]
----------------------------------

Complex input, such as arrays and objects, are passed in JSON format.

When passed the name of an option which takes complex input, this will
print out example JSON of what needs to be passed to that option.


--from-json [text]
------------------

Provide input to this command as a JSON document from a file.

Options can still be provided on the command line. If an option exists
in both the JSON document and the command line then the command line
specified value will be used


-?, -h, --help
--------------

Show this message and exit.
