update
******


Description
===========

Updates the specified security list's display name or rules. Avoid
entering confidential information.

Note that the *egressSecurityRules* or *ingressSecurityRules* objects
you provide replace the entire existing objects.


Usage
=====

   oci network security-list update [OPTIONS]


Options
=======


--security-list-id [text]
-------------------------

The OCID of the security list. [required]


--display-name [text]
---------------------

A user-friendly name. Does not have to be unique, and it's changeable.
Avoid entering confidential information.


--egress-security-rules [complex type]
--------------------------------------

Rules for allowing egress IP packets. This is a complex type whose
value must be valid JSON. The value can be provided as a string on the
command line or passed in as a file using the file://path/to/file
syntax.

The --generate-param-json-input option can be used to generate an
example of the JSON which must be provided. We recommend storing this
example in a file, modifying it as needed and then passing it back in
via the file:// syntax.

Example: '[{"destination": "10.0.2.0/24", "protocol": "6",
"isStateless": true, "tcpOptions": {"destinationPortRange": {"max":
1521, "min": 1521}, "sourcePortRange": {"max": 1521, "min": 1521}}}]'


--ingress-security-rules [complex type]
---------------------------------------

Rules for allowing ingress IP packets. This is a complex type whose
value must be valid JSON. The value can be provided as a string on the
command line or passed in as a file using the file://path/to/file
syntax.

The --generate-param-json-input option can be used to generate an
example of the JSON which must be provided. We recommend storing this
example in a file, modifying it as needed and then passing it back in
via the file:// syntax.

Example: '[{"source": "10.0.2.0/24", "protocol": "6", "isStateless":
true, "tcpOptions": {"destinationPortRange": {"max": 1521, "min":
1521}, "sourcePortRange": {"max": 1521, "min": 1521}}}]'


--if-match [text]
-----------------

For optimistic concurrency control. In the PUT or DELETE call for a
resource, set the *if-match* parameter to the value of the etag from a
previous GET or POST response for that resource.  The resource will be
updated or deleted only if the etag you provide matches the resource's
current etag value.


--force
-------

Perform update without prompting for confirmation.


--generate-full-command-json-input
----------------------------------

Prints out a JSON document which represents all possible options that
can be provided to this command.

This JSON document can be saved to a file, modified with the
appropriate option values, and then passed back via the --from-json
option. This provides an alternative to typing options out on the
command line.


--generate-param-json-input [text]
----------------------------------

Complex input, such as arrays and objects, are passed in JSON format.

When passed the name of an option which takes complex input, this will
print out example JSON of what needs to be passed to that option.


--from-json [text]
------------------

Provide input to this command as a JSON document from a file.

Options can still be provided on the command line. If an option exists
in both the JSON document and the command line then the command line
specified value will be used


-?, -h, --help
--------------

Show this message and exit.
