prometheus_metrics_proto
########################

The ``prometheus_metrics_proto`` package provides Prometheus Protobuf data
structures and a set of helper function to assist generating Prometheus
Protocol Buffer format metrics and serializing them in preparation for
network transfer.

The collection of metrics and the management of Summary Quantiles and
Histogram Buckets are outside the scope of functionality provided by
this package.

An example of a project using ``prometheus_metrics_proto`` this is
`aioprometheus <https://github.com/claws/aioprometheus>`_ which uses it
within the the BinaryFormatter.

The Protocol Buffer specification used by ``prometheus_metrics_proto`` was
obtained from the Prometheus `client model <https://github.com/prometheus/client_model/blob/master/metrics.proto>`_ repo.


Install
-------

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip install prometheus_metrics_proto


Background
----------

Creating metrics that can be ingested by Prometheus is relatively simple,
but does require knowledge of how they are composed.

The Prometheus server expects to ingest ``MetricsFamily`` objects when it
scrapes an endpoint exposing Protocol Buffer format data.

A ``MetricFamily`` object is a container that holds the metric name, a help
string and ``Metric`` objects. Each ``MetricFamily`` within the same
exposition must have a unique name.

A ``Metric`` object is a container for a single instance of a specific metric
type. Valid metric types are Counter, Gauge, Histogram and Summary. Each
``Metric`` within the same ``MetricFamily`` must have a unique set of
``LabelPair`` fields. This is commonly referred to as multi-dimensional metrics.


Example
-------

The ``prometheus_metrics_proto`` package provides helper functions to assist with
generating Prometheus metrics objects.

The example below shows how these functions can be used to construct metrics
and encode them into a format suitable to send to Prometheus server in a
response.

.. code:: python

    #!/usr/bin/env python
    '''
    This script demonstrates the high level helper functions used to assist
    creating various metrics kinds as well as how to encode the metrics into
    a form that can be sent to Prometheus server.
    '''

    import prometheus_metrics_proto as pmp


    def main():

        # Define some labels that we want added to all metrics. These labels are
        # independent of the instance labels that define a metric as unique.
        # These could be used to add hostname, app name, etc.
        const_labels = {'host': 'examplehost', 'app': 'my_app'}

        # Create a Counter metric to track logged in users. This counter has
        # 5 separate instances.
        # We'll make use of the optional const_labels argument to add extra
        # constant labels.
        # We will also add a timestamp to the metric instances.
        # We will request that the labels be sorted.
        cm = pmp.create_counter(
            'logged_users_total',
            'Logged users in the application.',
            (
                ({'country': "sp", "device": "desktop"}, 520),
                ({'country': "us", "device": "mobile"}, 654),
                ({'country': "uk", "device": "desktop"}, 1001),
                ({'country': "de", "device": "desktop"}, 995),
                ({'country': "zh", "device": "desktop"}, 520),
            ),
            timestamp=True,
            const_labels=const_labels,
            ordered=True)

        # Create a Gauge metric, similar to the counter above.
        gm = pmp.create_gauge(
            'logged_users_total',
            'Logged users in the application.',
            (
                ({'country': "sp", "device": "desktop"}, 520),
                ({'country': "us", "device": "mobile"}, 654),
                ({'country': "uk", "device": "desktop"}, 1001),
                ({'country': "de", "device": "desktop"}, 995),
                ({'country': "zh", "device": "desktop"}, 520),
            ),
            timestamp=True,
            const_labels=const_labels,
            ordered=True)

        # Now lets create a Summary and Histogram metric object. These forms
        # of metrics are slightly more complicated.
        #
        # Remember, the collection of metrics and the management of Summary
        # Quantiles and Histogram Buckets are outside the scope of
        # functionality provided by this package.
        #
        # The following examples assume they are taking the data values from
        # a management library that can also emit the sum and count fields
        # expected for both Summary and Histogram metrics.

        # Create a Summary metric. The values for a summary are slightly
        # different to a Counter or Gauge. They are composed of a dict representing
        # the various quantile values of the metric. The count and sum are
        # expected to be present in this dict.
        sm = pmp.create_summary(
            'request_payload_size_bytes',
            'Request payload size in bytes.',
            (
                ({'route': '/'}, {0.5: 4.0, 0.9: 5.2, 0.99: 5.2, 'sum': 25.2, 'count': 4}),
                ({'route': '/data'}, {0.5: 4.0, 0.9: 5.2, 0.99: 5.2, 'sum': 25.2, 'count': 4}),
            ),
            timestamp=True,
            const_labels=const_labels,
            ordered=True)

        # Create a Histogram metric. The values for a histogram are slightly
        # different to a Counter or Gauge. They are composed of a dict representing
        # the various bucket values of the metric. The cumulative count and sum
        # values are expected to be present in this dict.
        #
        # Libraries manageing buckets typically have add a POS_INF upper bound to
        # catch values beyond the largest bucket bound. Simulate this behavior in
        # the data below.
        POS_INF = float("inf")

        hm = pmp.create_histogram(
            'request_latency_seconds',
            'Request latency in seconds.',
            (
                ({'route': '/'}, {5.0: 3, 10.0: 2, 15.0: 1, POS_INF: 0, 'count': 6, 'sum': 46.0}),
                ({'route': '/data'}, {5.0: 3, 10.0: 2, 15.0: 1, POS_INF: 0, 'count': 6, 'sum': 46.0}),
            ),
            timestamp=True,
            const_labels=const_labels,
            ordered=True)

        # Serialize a sequence of metrics into a payload suitable for network
        # transmission.
        input_metrics = (cm, gm, sm, hm)
        payload = pmp.encode(*input_metrics)
        assert isinstance(payload, bytes)

        # De-serialize the payload into a sequence of MetricsFamily objects.
        recovered_metrics = pmp.decode(payload)

        # Confirm that the round trip re-produced the same number of metrics
        # and that the metrics are identical.
        assert len(recovered_metrics) == len(input_metrics)
        for recovered_metric, input_metric in zip(recovered_metrics, input_metrics):
            assert recovered_metric == input_metric

        for metric in input_metrics:
            print(metric)

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        main()


If you simply want to access the Prometheus Protocol Buffer objects directly
and generate instances yourself simply import them from the package as
follows:

.. code:: python

    from prometheus_metrics_proto import (
        COUNTER,
        GAUGE,
        SUMMARY,
        HISTOGRAM,
        Bucket,
        Counter,
        Gauge,
        Histogram,
        LabelPair,
        Metric,
        MetricFamily,
        Summary,
        Quantile)


License
-------

`prometheus_metrics_proto` is released under the MIT license.


Development
-----------

Check code style using:

.. code-block:: console

    (myenv) $ make style

Run unit tests.

.. code-block:: console

    $ make test

Check code coverage using:

.. code-block:: console

    (myenv) $ make coverage

Then open `results <htmlcov/index.html>`_ to review coverage.

The project has placed the code stub (``prometheus_metrics_pb2.py``),
generated by the Google Protocol Buffers code generation tool, under source
control.

If this file needs to be regenerated in the future use the following procedure:

.. code-block:: console

    (myenv) $ make regenerate


Release Process
---------------

The following steps are used to make a new software release:

- Ensure that the version label in ``__init__.py`` is updated.

- Create the distribution. This project produces an artefact called a pure
  Python wheel. Only Python3 is supported by this package.

  .. code-block:: console

      make dist

- Test distribution. This involves creating a virtual environment, installing
  the distribution in it and running the tests. These steps have been captured
  for convenience in a Makefile rule.

  .. code-block:: console

      make dist.test

- Upload to PyPI.

  .. code-block:: console

      make dist.upload

- Create and push a repo tag to Github.

  .. code-block:: console

      git tag YY.MM.MICRO -m "A meaningful release tag comment"
      git tag  # check release tag is in list
      git push --tags origin master

  - Github will create a release tarball at:

    ::

        https://github.com/{username}/{repo}/tarball/{tag}.tar.gz



