# Frequently Asked Questions

## How do I know if watchmaker has installed?

To determine whether watchmaker is installed, the simplest method is to run the
command `watchmaker --help`. If it displays the cli help page, watchmaker is
installed. Another option is to check `pip list | grep watchmaker`.

## What do I do if watchmaker failed to install?

First, review the :doc:`installation <installation>` document. Then double-check
the output of a failed installation. Usually, the output points pretty clearly
at the source of the problem. Watchmaker can be re-installed over itself with
no problem, so once the root cause is resolved, simply re-install watchmaker.

## How do I know if watchmaker has completed without errors?

By default, watchmaker will reboot the system after a sucessful execution.
Therefore, if the system reboots, watchmaker executed successfully. If you are
investigating sometime after watchmaker completed, check the logs for errors.
If anything fails, watchmaker will suppress the reboot. (Though note that the
`--no-reboot` flag can be used to suppress the reboot even after a successful
execution.)

You can also test the watchmaker exit code programmatically. If watchmaker
fails, it will return a non-zero exit code. If watchmaker completes
successfully, it will return an exit code of zero. You would typically pass the
`--no-reboot` flag if you intend to test the exit code and determine what to do
from there.

## What do I do if watchmaker failed to complete or completes with errors?

Start by checking the logs generated by watchmaker. The logs are stored in the
directory specified by the `--log-dir` argument. Search the log for entries
that have `[ERROR]`, this will give you a starting point to begin
troubleshooting. Also, if a salt state failed, look for the pattern
`Result: False`. If it is not an obvious or simple issue, feel free to create
an issue on the watchmaker github page. If there is a salt_call.debug.log in
the watchmaker log directory, you can look for `[ERROR]` messages in there as
well. However, this log file can be very noisy and a message with the error
label may not be related to the error you are encountering.

## Does watchmaker support Enterprise Linux 7?

Watchmaker is supported on RedHat 7 and CentOS 7. However, there may be issues
intermittently with the salt formulas as they are actively being developed.
